
In Part 8, we are going to add product image from add product form. We will add product image name in database and image itself in some folder in images.

We will resize the product image and then store in different folders.

We will create products folder in images folder. And inside products folder, we will create 3 other folders :-

Small Folder having small product images
Medium Folder having medium product images
Large Folder having large product images

So basically we are going to add original size of product image in Large folder and then we will resize it to make medium as well as small.

Suppose we have fixed to upload large image of size 1200 x 1200 then we resize it to medium image of size 600 x 600 and small image of size 300 x 300 that depends upon our requirement and design.

But for resizing images, we need to first install Intervention package of Laravel.

1) Install Intervention Package :-

For resizing images, we will install Intervention package by giving below command :-

composer.phar require intervention/image (For Windows)

php composer.phar require intervention/image (For Other OS)

2) Update add-product form :-

We need to add enctype = "multipart/form-data" in form and also we will give image id and name.

3) Add Validation for Image :-

In matrix.form_validation.js, add validation for image as well.

4) Check Intervention Package :-

Check if Intervention package is installed or not. Open composer.json file and check intervention/image there. If its there, it means installation is fine.

5) Add Headers :-

Add below headers at the top of ProductsController.php :-

 use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input;
 use Image;

6) Create Images folders :-

We need to create products folder under images folder. And in products folder, we will create small, medium and large folders for storing images after resize.

7) Update addProduct function with Upload Image code :-

See in video, we able to resize product original image of size 1200 x 1200 into 2 more sizes; medium with size 600 x 600 and small with size 300 x 300 and we stored them in their respective folders.

In next video, we will display all products in view products page with their images as well.

So stay tune for next video.
